Welcome back.
Let's start off with the very first item on our list.
Bubble sort sounds kind of playful and nice, right?
Bubble sort is part of these first three sorting algorithms here that are called elementary sorts.
They're very simple basic sorting algorithms that you would usually think of if somebody asked you to
sort something at the top of your head.
The second item here that we're going to get into later merge, short and quicksort are more complex
algorithms that most of the time can be more efficient than the first ones.
But to build that Lego block, let's start off with bubble sort.
How does bubble sort work?
Well, let me ask you a question.
If I gave you a list and I asked you to sort it in your head, imagining that you had blocks of these
letters, how would you move them around?
Or how would you tell a computer to move them around to sort it?
And Bubble Sword might be one of the first things that comes into mind.
You see, Bubble Sword comes from the idea of bubbling up the largest value using multiple pass through.
Let's see what I mean by that.
We look at six and five.
And then say six is larger than five.
And then we look at six and three and say six is larger than three, let's swap them out.
Then we look at six and one and once again six is larger than one.
Let's swap them out.
We look at six and eight, eight is larger than six.
So keep it the way it is and let's move on to the next one, eight and seven.
Let's swap them out.
Eight is larger than seven, eight and two, swap them out, eight and four swap them out.
We bubble up the highest number and then we go from the beginning.
Five and three.
Five and one, we bubble up the largest number.
So that seven comes next.
Then we keep going.
Keep going until six comes next.
Then we keep looping until we bubble up.
The highest number one by one, one by one, until we have a sorted list that is bubble sort.
Now, before we even code this, what do you think of bubble sort?
As you might have guessed, it's not the most efficient, is it?
Look at how many comparisons we did.
And everything was one by one.
Looping and looping and looping and bubble sort is one of the simplest sorting algorithm, but also
one of the least efficient.
So don't hate me for showing you how this works.
It's usually used as a learning tool, as the first step in learning a certain algorithm.
What do you think the time, complexity and space complexity of this algorithm is the answer.
Well, we can just use the big cheat sheet.
If we look at bubble sort, we see that the cases that we're most interested in is the average and worst
case.
We see that it's O of n squared.
With a space complexity of of one.
We're not really creating any new data structures.
We're just comparing items in nested loops one by one.
But let's see it in code to see why this is over and squared.
And I want to challenge you here.
And the next video we're going to coat along the bubble sort algorithm.
But if you want, go ahead and try implementing this on your own and see how your code matches up with
mine in the next video.
I'll see you on that one.